<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-software">About the software</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#prerequisites-and-installation">Prerequisites and Installation</a>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#behind-the-scene">Behind the scene</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>


## About this software

This repository contains a Linux eBPF-based system-call capture and parsing
toolchain, together with test and evaluation assets.

System call logs are the last line of defense against sophisticated cyber
attacks, providing a detailed and causally complete record for post-attack
investigation. This use requires logging to be enabled at all times, but
unfortunately, existing systems for system call logging do not seem to have been
designed or engineered for such use. Consequently, they are prone to losing a
large fraction of events during peak loads, and moreover, introduce significant
performance and storage overheads. The software here is designed to mitigate
these drawbacks and enable "always on" audit logging. Its goals are to:

  * enable systems to support peak workloads without a significant slowdown,
  * avoid losing system calls,
  * reduce data volume using **event reduction** techniques, and 
  * minimize the latency for logging.

This software is organized as follows:

  * The top-level directory contains most of the source code, with the
     remaining code appearing in the lib/ directory.
  * The main Makefile builds the capture and parser components in this
    directory.

  * The directory eval/ contains benchmarks, scripts and tools for evaluation.


## Prerequisites and Installation

See the file **INSTALL**.

## Usage

There are two top-level programs: `ecapd` and `eaudit`. `ecapd` is for
logging system calls, while `eaudit` parses and prints collected logs in a
human readable format. Being based on `ebpf`, `ecapd` requires root
privilege to run. Both programs support a **-h** option that prints a help
message documenting the command-line options.

## Behind the scene

`ecapd` is a wrapper shell script that invokes `eauditd.py`, which loads and
manages the `ebpf` code in `eauditk.c`. `eauditd.py` also loads the code
from `eauditd.C` and sets it up to read the captured data (from `ebpf`'s ring
buffer) and write it into the capture file.

`eaudit.C` and `eParser.C` contain the code that compiles into `eaudit`,
the program that parses capture files and produces human-readable output.
`eauditk.c` is compiled on the fly and loaded into the kernel by
`eauditd.py`.


## Replicating the charts in the paper
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Figure 1 (Data Loss for eAudit)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.1 Start the logger
$ ./ecapd -m diag: -C -s -v2 -b 1.6 -r 64 -w 8 -- -C /tmp/dataloss.log

1.2 Run benchmarks tools and attack tools
$ run_tar 12 17 
$ run_chmod 12 6666667

1.3 Check the data loss information in the ./ecapd result when you terminate the logger.

Example output:

17.26M Calls, 922.52MiB (122M lost), Size: call=53 record=110

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Figure 3-8 (Inline data reduction)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- This is the first layer of defense, where the data volume are significantly 
reduced. As the data are gathered over a period of days, you can just check
this using data reduction helpers for benchmarks. You can gather data for days
and check the results as well.

1.1 Start logger without reduction enabled
$ ./ecapd -m diag: -C -s -v2 -b 1.6 -r 64 -w 8 -- -C /tmp/dataloss.log

1.2 Start the logger with reduction enabled

$ ./ecapd -m diag: -C -s -v2 -b 1.6 -r 64 -w 8 --fo --dlw -- -C /tmp/dataloss.log

1.2 Run benchmarks tools and attack tools
$ run_tar 12 17 

1.3 Check the system calls logged by both the processes with and without reduction.
Example output (with reduction):
9.57M Calls, 509.54MiB (0 lost), Size: call=53 record=111

4541628 ringbuf calls with wakeup flag, 21756 without, 17069 actual wakes
*** 910993 read/writes, 336159 recorded ***
*** 953715 opens, 161466 recorded ***
*** Too many fileinfo (754) unfound: ***

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Figure 9 (Invalid systemcall flood defense)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.1 Start logger with invalid system call attack protection
$ ./ecapd -m diag: -C -s -v2 -b 1.6 -r 64 -w 8 --fo --dlw -- -C /tmp/dataloss.log

1.2 Run benchmarks tools and attack tools
$ run_rename 384 208334
$ run_clone3 384 208334
- you can run other scripts as well, check the run_X for other scripts

1.3 Check the report generated by ecpad after you stop it. 
9.57M Calls, 509.54MiB (0 lost), Size: call=53 record=111

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Figure 11-12 (Adaptive throttling)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## These charts are generated by computing the syscall rate and quota

1.1 Start the logger with adaptive throttling enabled

./ecapd -m diag: -C -s -v2 -b 1.6 -r 64 -w 8 -fo --dlw -Pcg300000 -- -C /tmp/dataloss.log

- Run benchmarks tools and attack tools
$ run_tar 12 17 
$ run_chmod 12 6666667

Check the data loss information in the ./ecapd result when you terminate the logger.

Example output:

17.26M Calls, 922.52MiB (0 lost), Size: call=53 record=110


#Notes:
Please check the scripts at eval/ directory and -h options for each script
and ./ecapd -h for all options for these layers of defense.

